It is my great pleasure
to warmly welcome all of you
and to say, “Shalom.”
Why is saying that appropriate?
Well, shalom  is the Hebrew word for “peace,”
and it occurs over 200 times in the Bible.
When it’s used as a greeting
(just as I used it),
it means: “May you have peace.”
So, what could be a more appropriate way
to greet all of you at the start
of this “Pursue Peace”!
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses!
We are very pleased that you’re with us,
and we assure you
that you will not be disappointed.
To the contrary, you’ll be glad you were able
to devote three days to learning
what the Bible says
about how to gain and maintain peace
in all areas of your life.
But now let’s begin
by talking about the Person
who has drawn us all together
for this convention—Jehovah.
And how we delight in talking
about our marvelous heavenly Father!
Philippians 4:9
calls Jehovah “the God of peace.”
Now, it’s true
that he possesses many qualities
—love, justice, wisdom, power—
but he also possesses the quality of peace.
If you think about it,
he is at peace with himself,
at peace with angels,
at peace with faithful humans.
Yes, he is “the God of peace.”
But now here’s a question:
Does Jehovah keep this peace to himself?
Well, let’s get the answer
at Romans chapter 15.
Romans chapter 15
and please let’s read verse 33:
“May the God who gives peace
be with all of you. Amen.”
So he generously gives this peace,
as we’ll be discussing.
In fact, he gives
“every good gift and every perfect present,”
according to James 1:17.
And one of his finest presents
is the gift of peace.
But now here’s another question:
What kind of peace does Jehovah give?
Well, many equate peace
with freedom from conflict
and strife in one’s life.
But the peace Jehovah gives
is a lot more than that.
The peace that only Jehovah can supply
brings in feelings of safety,
security, well-being.
This Jehovah-given peace
is described very nicely
in Philippians chapter 4.
Let’s go there.
Philippians chapter 4 beginning in verse 6:
“Do not be anxious over anything,
“but in everything by prayer and supplication
“along with thanksgiving,
“let your petitions be made known to God;
“and the peace of God
that surpasses all understanding
“will guard your hearts
and your mental powers
by means of Christ Jesus.”
So notice that Jehovah is saying:
“Do not be anxious over anything.”
Would Jehovah tell us to do something
that was impossible for us to do?
No.
But, obviously, he’s talking about not being
overly anxious.
Controlled anxiety
can actually be beneficial.
It can move us to show concern for others.
It can motivate us to work enthusiastically
to accomplish an assignment.
But now, what about excessive,
uncontrolled anxiety?
Well, that can lead to physical problems.
Depression can be crippling,
debilitating, enfeebling.
But now, how can we avoid
being overly anxious over anything?
The answer is given in the next words
of Philippians 4:6, 7.
After telling us not to be anxious,
Jehovah gives the antidote.
He basically tells us to pray,
supplicate, and petition him,
and we will get that “peace of God.”
But now, what does the scripture mean
when it says that this ‘peace of God
surpasses all understanding’?
Well, we could say
that it’s so amazing and so powerful
that we limited humans
cannot fully understand it.
It defies logic from a human standpoint.
Our hearts and minds may be filled
with so much worry, fear, anxiety
that we see no way out, but we beg Jehovah
for the peace that he can supply.
And then what happens?
Our minds and hearts
are amazingly filled with calmness,
security, tranquility.
Loraine, a young girl
whose mother was dying
of cancer, said this:
“I was in the room
when my mother took her last breath.
“I . . . asked Jehovah
to give me the strength
“to endure and to get through this.
I immediately felt the peace of God.”
But now, what is meant by the expression
“the peace of God . . .
will guard your hearts
and your mental powers”?
Well, the Greek word translated “guard”
is a military term
that evokes a mental picture
of soldiers
maintaining a day-and-night watch.
In the same way,
this peace of God
can act like a 24-hour guard
over our hearts and mental powers
—keeping them calm, secure, and tranquil.
Now, here’s a question:
What is the key ingredient
to our being able to receive
this miraculous peace of God?
The answer:
Having a close friendship with Jehovah.
The apostle Paul
experienced firsthand many times
that having inner peace depends,
not on circumstances,
but, rather, on a close,
personal relationship with Jehovah.
For example, on one occasion
because Paul and Silas boldly preached,
they had their garments ripped off of them.
They were beaten—many blows with rods.
They were thrown into the inner prison.
Their feet were fastened in stocks.
But in the middle of the night,
what did Paul and Silas begin to do?
They began to pray
and sing songs of praise to Jehovah.
In amazement,
all the other prisoners
were listening to them.
So obviously, their very,
very unfavorable circumstances
had not robbed them
of their precious peace of God.
So let’s learn
this valuable lesson from Paul and Silas.
Having the peace of God
is not dependent on our circumstances,
but it is dependent
on having a close,
personal relationship with Jehovah.
Thus far, we’ve discussed how Jehovah
is the God of peace who gives peace,
and we’ve talked
about what kind of peace he gives.
But now we ask,
To whom does Jehovah give peace?
The simple answer is,
Jehovah gives peace
to those who draw close to him
and want to follow his guidance.
So receiving peace from Jehovah starts
with living a clean life,
following Jehovah’s
righteous moral standards.
Many people in Satan’s world, as you know,
believe that God will accept them as they are
—that God in effect
will lower his standard to accommodate them.
Can you imagine such pride?
That would be like a pot
telling its maker, the potter,
how the pot must be used,
and the potter must accept this,
whether he likes it or not.
Well, we know
it doesn’t work that way, does it?
We have to come up
to Jehovah’s righteous standards.
Now, he’ll help us, but we do the changing
—certainly not Jehovah.
Interestingly, James 3:17
says that “the wisdom from above
“is first of all pure,
then peaceable.”
So if we want peace from Jehovah
that will result in peaceful lives,
we must be pure
according to Jehovah’s moral standards.
Isaiah 48:22 reads:
“‘There is no peace,’
says Jehovah, ‘for the wicked.’”
Or put another way,
those who wickedly set
their own moral standards
will receive no peace from Jehovah
and will not have peaceful lives.
But we work hard
to live by Jehovah’s standards.
Now, it’s true
that Jehovah does his part to help us,
but he does expect us to do our part.
We could say that his blessing on our effort
is somewhat like multiplication.
What do we mean?
Well, if we put forth no effort,
there’s nothing for Jehovah to multiply.
What is ten times zero?
Zero.
a hundred times zero?
a thousand times zero?
a million times zero?
We still have zero.
So if we don’t do anything,
Jehovah has nothing to multiply.
Galatians 5:22 tells us that peace
is an aspect
of “the fruitage of the [holy] spirit.”
So the holy spirit will help us
cultivate and demonstrate peace.
In fact, John 14:26
describes the holy spirit as a “helper.”
But that expression “helper”
doesn’t indicate
it will miraculously do the job for us
with no effort on our part.
To illustrate this if we can:
Imagine that you’re working very hard
to paint the outside of your house,
and a good friend comes to help you.
Now you’re painting together.
But then you decide,
‘I’ll just go back in the house,
and I’ll just take it easy.’
Well, how long
will your friend keep painting?
If he continued painting,
he’s no longer a helper;
he’s doing the job for you.
Luke 11:13 tells us that Jehovah
will “give holy spirit
to those asking him” for it.
So if we ask for holy spirit
and then do our very best
to work in harmony with that helper,
we will enjoy peace with God
and we will enjoy and promote harmony,
unity, and good relations with others.
And what a pleasure it is
to associate with those who display peace
—this important aspect
of the spirit’s fruitage!
When a sleeping baby
is suddenly awakened
in the middle of the night by a loud noise,
he becomes frightened
—doesn’t he?—
and he cries out for help.
But when a parent cuddles him
and soothes him with reassuring words,
he calms down immediately.
Well, David at Psalm 55:16-18
said that when he was troubled,
he ‘called out to God’
and that Jehovah
‘heard his voice’ and ‘gave him peace.’
Like David, when we’re in anguish,
we can supplicate our heavenly Father,
and he will soothe and restore our peace.
In fact, our loving Father
is eager to do this for us.
Open up to Jeremiah chapter 29,
and notice that he’s eager
to replace our anxiety
with the peace from him.
Jeremiah 29:11:
“‘For I well know the thoughts
that I am thinking toward you,’
“declares Jehovah,
“‘thoughts of peace, and not of calamity,
“‘to give you a future and a hope.
“‘And you will call me
and come and pray to me,
and I will listen to you.’”
Isn’t that beautiful?
Our God is ready, willing, and able
to replace our anxieties
with this amazing peace
that only he can give.
Well, we’ve now discussed
how Jehovah is the God of peace.
We’ve discussed who he gives the peace to
—to those who draw close to him
and earnestly seek peace from him.
But now let’s examine how each of us
can promote peace with others.
In the following video,
Brother Kenneth Cook of the Governing Body
will explain how this convention program
will help us to pursue peace.
On behalf of the Governing Body,
I can say that we really appreciate
your attending
this “Pursue Peace”! Convention.
Speaking of peace,
we love the serene setting
here at our world headquarters
on Blue Lake in New York State.
At times, the water is as smooth as a mirror.
We occasionally see eagles and hawks fly by.
And in the fall of the year
when the leaves change color,
the forest can look spectacular.
More important
than this tranquil setting, though,
is the abundant peace
that Jehovah has given to his organization.
We can say this because of the peace
and harmony that unite us
no matter what our nationality,
language, race, tribe,
or social background is.
This is truly spectacular,
especially when we consider
all the turmoil in the world
and how divided people are
politically, socially, and religiously.
However, we cannot take
our beautiful peace for granted;
it’s not maintained automatically.
Each of us personally must pursue peace
in order to have God’s approval.
Jehovah certainly wants his worshippers
to enjoy lasting peace.
That was true in ancient times.
God told Moses to have the priests in Israel
bless the people with very reassuring words.
Notice these words that we find
at Numbers 6:24-26,
and hear what the priests
were to say to the people:
“May Jehovah bless you and safeguard you.
“May Jehovah make his face shine upon you,
“and may he favor you.
“May Jehovah lift up his face toward you
and grant you peace.”
The next verse states:
“And they must place my name
“upon the people of Israel,
that I may bless them.”
Jehovah has placed his name on us too,
and he is richly blessing us.
Let’s consider what
this convention program is going to cover
so that we’ll know how we can continue
to enjoy God’s blessing of peace.
First, we’ll consider
how to be at peace with God.
Our greatest peace comes
from having
a personal relationship with Jehovah.
Making him our best Friend benefits us
and leads to peace
in every other aspect of our life.
How can we reach out
for a close relationship with God?
We need more
than a superficial knowledge of him.
We need to get to know Jehovah as a person
and admire his qualities and ways.
Then we can love what he loves
and hate what he hates.
During this program,
listen for details about Jehovah
that will draw you ever closer to him.
Second, we’ll consider
how to be at peace with others.
Our homes should be havens
for peace for our families.
This means more than the absence of arguing.
It involves putting the interests
of our family members ahead of our own.
As we’ll learn from this program,
that includes showing love
and respect to one another,
working as a team,
improving family communication,
and worshipping Jehovah together.
Third, we’ll consider
how to be at peace despite trials
and troublesome world conditions.
During this convention,
we’re going to tour the world to see how,
despite opposition, illness,
economic problems, and natural disasters,
our brothers really care for one another,
how they receive help
from Jehovah’s organization,
and how they continue
their spiritual activity.
No matter what may threaten
our lives or livelihood,
we can be confident
that Jehovah can help us get through it
and retain our peace of mind and heart.
Fourth, we’ll consider
how to enjoy peace eternally.
Once God’s Kingdom
has lifted mankind to perfection,
we’ll no longer have to pursue peace.
As Psalm 72:7 promises:
“The righteous will flourish,
and peace will abound
until the moon is no more.”
In other words, there will be peace forever.
This program will help us
to anticipate future blessings from Jehovah.
Can you see why “Pursue Peace!”
was well chosen
as the theme for this year’s convention?
To pursue something means
to chase it in order to capture it.
Because of the influence of Satan,
his wicked world, and our own imperfections,
peace is constantly trying to elude us.
Therefore, we have to chase after it
to capture it in our lives.
This convention program will help us do that.
May the God of peace
be with all of you now and forever!
That’s the heartfelt wish
of all of us on the Governing Body
because we love you dearly.
Please enjoy the entire convention program!
We warmly thank Brother Cook
for highlighting
some of the ways
this convention program
will help us to pursue peace.
But now let’s briefly preview
the convention program that is coming our way
that has been provided by the God of peace,
and you may want to follow along
by using your copy
of the convention program.
You’ll note that day one has the theme
“Jehovah will bless his people with peace.”
The first symposium will illustrate
how love for God, love for neighbor,
and love for God’s Word
lead to genuine peace.
This year’s dramatic Bible reading
is based on the life of Jacob.
And as you will see,
Jacob gives us an excellent example
as to how we can
“pursue the things
making for peace.”
Thereafter, we’ll have the talk
“The Result of True Righteousness
Will Be Peace,”
and we’ll see in that talk
how we can resist temptation.
Just as a lion devours prey
and assimilates it into his body,
Satan tries to get us
to succumb to temptations
so that he can devour us
and assimilate us into his world.
But during that talk,
we’ll learn how to reject his temptations.
Then in the second half of day one,
we’ll enjoy our second convention symposium,
“Take Delight in God’s Promises of Peace.”
We will be greatly heartened
by Jehovah’s promises of peace
found in the book of Isaiah.
For example, one of the talks has the theme
“The Wolf and the Lamb Will Feed Together.”
Today, we can’t even imagine
feeding a wolf and a lamb together.
If we tried such, it would likely result
in lamb chops for the wolf.
But Jehovah’s promise in Isaiah assures us
that peace will exist
between humans and animals
and between animals and other animals.
The third convention symposium
has a thought-provoking theme
“Follow the Road Map to Family Peace.”
We’ll learn how, despite challenges,
marriage mates, parents, and children
can successfully follow
that road map to family peace.
Then we’ll enjoy the talk
“Loyally Support the ‘Prince of Peace.’”
That talk will remind us
of the importance
of maintaining our neutrality
by not taking sides on political issues.
To conclude day one,
we’ll have the intriguing talk
“Do Not Be Misled by Imitation Peace!”
It will contrast the world’s so-called peace
with a genuine peace
that Jesus will give his followers.
But then on day two,
notice the theme
“Be found . . . spotless
and unblemished and in peace.”
The second day starts with a symposium
designed to invigorate us for our ministry
so that we can be ready
to share the good news of peace.
That will be followed by the talk
“Young People
—Choose a Path That Leads to Peace!”
And that talk will encourage
our dear young ones
to pursue the full-time ministry.
And we want to say to you dear young ones
that if you do this,
you will enjoy a happy life
and you will have no regrets.
Next, we will see a video
that shows how our brothers around the world
are continuing their spiritual activity
and are enjoying peace
despite difficult trials.
Then a highlight of the day
will be the baptism
of new disciples of Jesus.
In the baptism talk, the baptism candidates
will be encouraged
to “Go On Walking ‘in the Way of Peace.’”
And why?
Because this is truly the best way of life.
Two more symposiums
will use video dramatizations
to contrast traits of peace wreckers
with the qualities of peacemakers.
And what a stark contrast between the two
you’ll see in these symposiums!
It’s kind of like the contrast
between bitter and sweet.
Part 1 of this year’s Bible drama
will remind us of ancient examples
of God’s people who pursued peace,
and we’ll definitely be able
to relate to their examples
and relate it
to our current situation in life.
The day will conclude with showing us
how to “Safeguard
Our ‘Uniting Bond of Peace’!”
We’ll see how we can do so
by putting the application
of Bible principles
always ahead
of following local culture and traditions.
Now on day three, the theme is
“May the God who gives hope
fill you with all joy and peace.”
The opening symposium
will examine seven examples
of ones who sowed peace and reaped peace.
We will examine Joseph and his brothers,
the Gibeonites, Gideon, Abigail,
Mephibosheth, Paul and Barnabas,
and modern examples.
We truly hope that many accept our invitation
to hear the enlightening
public Bible discourse
entitled “Friendship With God
—How Possible?”
Now, if we think about it,
we’re not born as friends of God
because we’re born
as sinful offspring of Adam.
Actually, if you think about it,
we’re born as enemies of God.
Sometimes you’ll hear
people say of a little baby,
“Look at that little angel,”
but more accurate would be to say,
“Look at that little enemy of God.”
Now, of course, we love that little baby.
And it’s not hopeless
because our loving Creator
has made reconciliation with him
within the reach of everyone.
We can become a good friend of God.
And that close relationship with Jehovah
will become our most valuable possession.
But then after we enjoy
Part 2 of the Bible drama,
the concluding talk of this convention
will fill our hearts with a joyful prospect
that “Universal Peace Is Sure to Come!”
It’s guaranteed by the God “who cannot lie.”
Finally, we’ll join in singing
a beautiful new original song
and we’ll close with a prayer of praise
to Jehovah,
the Source of peace.
So, dear brothers and sisters,
there’s a brief synopsis
of our wonderful three-day convention
provided by the God of peace
that is coming our way.
And throughout,
the program will be enhanced
with dozens of videos,
and we’ll see our brothers
either in real-life settings
or dramatizations
that we’ll definitely be able to relate to.
In fact, the following video
is a little, or small, sampling of the videos
you will see during this convention.
Hey, everyone.
Guess who just walked in?
Olivia.
Today’s poll: Would she ever?
No, she would never; she’s an angel.
I wanted to go up to the girls
and smash their phones.
Neutral?
Ain’t no neutral.
You’re just a coward.
Take your trash.
What I was feeling back then
was just sadness,
never really peace.
Hello, everyone.
Haley from DeNure Design here.
Is there just a little bit of envy in there?
In June of 2018,
a huge group of armed men came to us.
They represented the ideals of my childhood.
Do you have any idea
what this is going to cost us?
I didn’t have a choice.
You went behind my back!
Where’s your mask?
Do you know how many people
have actually gotten sick?
Zero.
That’s what always happens.
When you’re just
about to lose all your strength,
Jehovah does that something for you.
I’m so grateful that we made peace
before the world turned upside down.
But here’s an important question
for all of us:
Will we prepare our heart
to receive God’s peace
during this convention?
Ezra 7:10 tells us
that ‘Ezra prepared his heart
to consult the Law of Jehovah
and to practice it,
and to teach it to the Israelites.’
Now, what was the result?
Verse 11 tells us
he became “an expert in the study
of the commandments of Jehovah.”
Well, in imitation of Ezra,
how can we prepare our heart
for what we’re going to take in
at this convention?
Well, for one thing (very important),
by prayer and meditation,
we can make sure that our heart is ready,
receptive to receive Jehovah’s instruction.
And we can also make sure that in our heart,
we are determined
to apply what Jehovah teaches us.
But then another thing we can do
is we can pay close attention
to the music-video presentations
that will be shown before every session
as the convention begins.
Now, these presentations
have been carefully crafted
to help prepare our heart for each session.
Much time, effort, and expense
has been expended in preparing
these beautiful presentations.
So please listen carefully
as the sounds and scenes
prepare your heart to accept
the spiritual instruction
that will follow.
Yes, may each of us be determined
to listen attentively
to what Jehovah is teaching us.
May we be determined to imitate the psalmist
who humbly stated at Psalm 85:8:
“I will listen
to what the true God Jehovah says,
for he will speak peace to his people.”
If we do, we will learn
how to pursue peace with all people
to the praise of Jehovah, the God of peace,
who blesses his people with peace.
Yes, we will be successful in pursuing peace
until we no longer have to pursue it.
Now, what do we mean?
Well, think about it.
Does Jehovah have to pursue peace?
Does he have to chase it
in an effort to try to catch it?
No.
Jehovah merely displays peace.
Well, in the new world,
what a wonderful time it will be
when we no longer have to pursue peace,
but like Jehovah,
we can merely display peace.
But right now, let’s be determined
to continue to pursue peace.
And may this wonderful convention
that is coming our way help us to do so!